Library Room Reservation Application:

Introduction : A Ruby on Rails application to book study rooms in NC State libraries. The application is deployed on Heroku.

Landing Page:
The user needs to sign up and create an account to be able to book a room in the Library Reservation App.
Once signed up, the user needs to login with his/her email and password.
There are two roles of a user : Library Member or Admin.
There are two separate consoles for Admin and Library Members

Library User Functionalities :

1. New Booking Process :
To search for rooms, user needs to go to make a new booking.
Once a user selects the new booking link, he is asked to enter the date for which he needs to book a room.
He has the option of entering room number/ library building/ size of room to query results for availability of rooms.
The result is shown for that particular date in the form of a time duration grid. According to the query, resulting rooms are retrieved and are showcased in the form of a table indicating when it is free/booked. The table also describes the room in terms of its location building and its size.
The user can accordingly fill in the room number with the start and end time in the reservation form.
If a room gets booked successfully , a booking id is displayed.

Room reservation is successful if:
- Reservation is made for maximum 2 hours.
- Room is booked for a date which falls within the week.

The reservation can fail if username , start time ,end time , date: any one of these is left blank. It can also fail if the reasons above are not satisfied.

2.Release a Booking:
A user can choose to cancel his/her booking.
User needs to click on Release a Booking link and he will be shown a list of all his booking sorted according to date with their booking ids.
User needs to enter the booking id for which he needs to cancel the reservation.
The reservation entry will then be deleted from the records.

3. View Booking History:
User can see his own bookings, sorted by date.

4. Informing teammates of existing booking (Extra Credit)
Any user who makes a successful booking, can send a notification message to his team member by clicking on ‘Inform teammates of existing booking’. The user for whom this message has been sent, can view it from ‘New Message’ link once he logs in.

5. Edit Profile :
User can change his/her registered email id or password. Username will remain the same.

Admin Functionality :

1.Managing members : 
For adding new admins : Admin just needs to change permission by clicking on "Changing Permissions of Members"
Admin can add new members to library through Adding New Members
To see which user he wants to make admin, he can "view all the members" under Manage Library Members
To verify that the user has been added in the admin list, you can check "View all admins" under "Manage Admins"

Default Admin (Super admin in this case) can add more admins.
View all admins
Delete admins by entering username

2,Manage rooms :
Admin can add/delete/edit a room. Admin can book a room on behalf of another user. Admin can view booking histories corresponding to any room which he wishes to see by clicking on ‘View Rooms Reservation History’ under Manage Rooms.

3.Manage Library Members:
Admin can view profile of all members. He can see bookings corresponding to each user.Admin can delete user/another admin  too.

Special Cases :
For special case A ( Special test case A: The system should handle the scenario where an admin deletes a room that has a reservation.) :  In this case, a notification message is sent to the user who had booked that room. That room’s reservation history is also deleted from the booking history table. This can be verified by going to ‘View Room Reservation History’ under manage rooms.
For special case B (The system should handle the scenario that admins delete library member who have currently reserved a room .) The booking history will be updated accordingly(that user’s booking will be deleted.) This can be checked by admin when he first views the booking history of that user and once that user is deleted, he can again check that user’s booking history to find that it is deleted.

Extra Credit:
Any user who makes a successful booking, can send a notification message to his team member by clicking on ‘Inform teammates of existing booking’. The user for whom this message has been sent, can view it from ‘New Message’ link once he logs in.

Note: There are the following predefined database entries which have been mentioned in seeds.rb file.
The super admin with credentials Admin Role :
             Default admin credential:username : Superadmin
            Email : admin@lib.com
            Password : admin

      2.LibraryRoom.create(number: 200, building: 'Hunt', size: 2)
      3. LibraryRoom.create(number: 300, building: 'Hunt', size: 4)
      4.LibraryRoom.create(number: 400, building: 'Hunt', size: 6)
      5.LibraryRoom.create(number: 250, building: 'DH Hill', size: 2)
      6.LibraryRoom.create(number: 350, building: 'DH Hill', size: 4)
      7.LibraryRoom.create(number: 450, building: 'DH Hill', size: 6)
